h:Predicate Logic Intro:

q:Predicate logic is broken into two parts: Syntax and what?
a:Semantics
    -   Semantics assigns meanings to symbols using models
q:True or false: everything true for propositional logic is also true for predicate logic?
a:True
 - All rules from propositional logic carry over to predicate logic! This does not mean everything for predicate logic carries over to propositional however.





h:Predicate Logic Syntax

q:A formula is made up of what two components?
a:Terms and Predicates
Terms are 'nouns' or objects, and predicates are the 'verbs' that describe their properties or relations between terms.

q:Terms are notated with a capital letter: True or False?
a:False
    -   Terms are objects and subjects and are notated with lower case letters. E.g. Aristotle = a
q:There can be up to two predicates in a formula.
a:False
    -   Predicates are 'verbs' - relations or propeties between objecs, and there can only be one per formula.
q:What is the subject in the following sentence: Johnny bought his jeans from Vinted.
a:Johnny
    -
q:What are the two types of predicates?
a:Properties and Relations
    -
q:What is the Arity of the following Formula? (enter as a nummber) M(s,a)
a:2
    - Arity is the number or terms taken as the argument: this example has s & a so it is 2.



h:Compound Formulae

q: Compound Formulae are formed of, atomic formulae, logical connectives, and what?
a: Quantifiers
    - The quantifiers: Existential (backwards E) and Universal (Upside down A).



h:Practical Questions. Use 'A' and 'E' as quantifiers if needed.
q:Assuming the following atomic formula: Adam is tall, Beth is tall, Carl is tall. How do we capture all in a single atomic formula?
a:T(x)
 -  where T = 'is tall' and x = someone.
q:What is the negation of the formula: All musicians can sing.
a:There exists a musician who can't sing.
 - If you got along those lines, assume correct.
q:What is the negation of the formula (E and A are the quatifiers): ExD(x)
a:Ax~D(x)
    -   say D is 'can dance' and x is 'someone'. ExD(x) assumes there exists someone who can dance. The negation of this is 'Every person cannot dance': Ax~D(x)
q:Which option correctly represents 'Each student on the course has a copy of a book'. a - AsEbH(s,b) or b - EbAsH(s,b)
a:a
 - b suggest 'there exists a book that every student has.' (maybe there is only one copy in the library for them to share). a suggests 'for every student there exists a book that the student has' which is correct.
q:Using P(x,y) = x is the parent of y, and k = a kid, write 'all of Homer's kids are also Marge's kids' (use single letters for names)
a:AkP(h,k)->P(m,k)
 - 'if... then' is used because the statement given doesn't exlude the possibility that Marge may have kids who aren't Homer's kids.
